Unofficial AppVeyor REST API Swagger Definition
===============================================

[![Build Status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/4av6wqa9hk5l7lmi/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/kevinoid/appveyor-swagger)
[![Swagger Validation](https://img.shields.io/swagger/valid/2.0/https/raw.githubusercontent.com/kevinoid/appveyor-swagger/master/swagger.yaml.svg)](https://github.com/swagger-api/validator-badge)
[![Version on NPM](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/appveyor-swagger.svg?style=flat)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/appveyor-swagger) [![Greenkeeper badge](https://badges.greenkeeper.io/kevinoid/appveyor-swagger.svg)](https://greenkeeper.io/)

This project aims to provide a
[Swagger](http://swagger.io)/[OpenAPI](https://www.openapis.org/) definition
of the [AppVeyor REST API](https://www.appveyor.com/docs/api/).  It is
neither supported nor endorsed by AppVeyor.  Any differences between this
definition and the AppVeyor REST API are errors in this definition and users
are encouraged to [report the
issue](https://github.com/kevinoid/appveyor-swagger/issues/new).

## Documentation

The documentation generated from the Swagger definition is available in the
following formats:

* [ReDoc](https://github.com/Rebilly/ReDoc):
  [AppVeyor API Docs](https://kevinoid.github.io/appveyor-swagger/redoc/)
  (Supports `discriminator`)
* [Swagger UI](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-ui/):
  [AppVeyor API Docs](https://kevinoid.github.io/appveyor-swagger/swagger-ui/)
* [Bootprint](https://github.com/bootprint/bootprint-openapi):
  [AppVeyor API Docs](https://kevinoid.github.io/appveyor-swagger/bootprint/)

## Installation

The Swagger definition can be installed as an [an npm
package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/appveyor-swagger) by running:

```sh
npm install appveyor-swagger
```

It can then be used in [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) projects with:

```js
var appveyorSwagger = require('appveyor-swagger');
```

## Test Client

There is a [AppVeyor API Client in
Java](https://github.com/kevinoid/appveyor-swagger-java) which is generated
from the definition in this project and used for demonstration and testing
purposes.  It is a good example of how to generate and use a client based on
this definition.

## Implementation Notes

### Versioning

The AppVeyor REST API does not provide any public versioning scheme that I am
aware of.  Since versioning is necessary, both in the OpenAPI specification
file and in the npm package, the following versioning scheme is adopted:

* **Major Version** is kept at 0.  This is both to signal that the API is
  unstable (via [semver
rules](http://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html#semantic-versioning-specification-semver)) and to allow any numbering which may be introduced by AppVeyor to compare
  as later than these unnumbered releases.
* **Minor Version** is the REST API date as YYYYMMDD.  This denotes the version
  of the AppVeyor REST API being described which is easy to read and reason
  about.  Changes to this number may reflect incompatible changes to the API.
* **Patch Version** is the serial number of the OpenAPI/Swagger description for
  the minor date.  It resets to 0 each time the minor version is changed and
  is incremented by 1 for each published version.  Although it does not
  represent a change in the REST API, it is likely to reflect a change in the
  generated/validation API of software using the specification.  Software using
  this specification should *expect API changes even when the patch version
  changes* and should not be depended upon such versions without testing.

### Schema Names

The schema names used in the definition are based on the names returned in the
XML API responses, where those names are not confusing and do not conflict
with the requirements imposed by `discriminator`.  (The OpenAPI Spec requires
`discriminator` property values match schema names).

### Schema Strictness

There are many trade-offs between the schema strictness and the usability,
clarity, and flexibility of the code generated by the schema.  This project
attempts to make the types as strict as possible without compromising
usability and clarity.  This provides the most type safety (for strictly typed
languages) and protection against accidental API misuse.  Specific choices are
described below.

#### `With` Schema Types

The `DeploymentEnvironment`, `Project`, and `Role` schemas each have a second
schema which defines additional properties
(`DeploymentEnvironmentWithSettings`, `ProjectWithConfiguration`,
`RoleWithGroups`).  The advantage to having separate types is both clarity in
the generated documentation and protection against misuse.  For example,
trying to update a project using the `Project` instead of
`ProjectWithConfiguration` can be caught either at compile time or before the
request is made.  The disadvantage is that since the generated `With` classes
do not implement or inherit from the class/interface of their parent schemas
and do not provide copy constructors between them, using them becomes more
painful.  I would appreciate feedback about this trade-off in real-world use
cases.

#### `PUT` vs `GET` Schema Types

`PUT` schemas could be defined separately from the `GET` types in several
cases.  This would allow making most properties `required` in the `GET` types,
which could result in non-nullable/non-optional codegen in some languages
(although it does not in any that I'm currently aware of).  The down-side is
that unless the codegen includes an easy way to translate data between these
types, doing a `GET`+modify+`PUT` becomes more painful than it should be.  So
this has been not been done.

### Polymorphism

`swagger-polymorphic.yaml` attempts to provide stricter type definitions by
applying polymorphism using the
[`discriminator`](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/2.0.md#user-content-schemaDiscriminator)
property.  Most tools provide limited or no support for this property.
Therefore, this file is mostly kept for reference and in the hopes that future
tools may be able to make use of it.

Polymorphic types are problematic for several reasons, not least of which is
the requirement that Schema name match the `discriminator` property value,
which can cause collisions and require ugly names.
[OAI/OpenAPI-Specification#403](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/issues/403)
There are various extensions available:

* AutoRest uses
  [`x-ms-discriminator-value`](https://github.com/Azure/autorest/pull/474)
* Swagger Codegen has an open PR to use
  [`x-discriminator-value`](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-codegen/pull/4252)

There are also plans to support `oneOf` and `anyOf` in OpenAPI v3.0
[OAI/OpenAPI-Specification#741](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/pull/741)
along with adding a value to type map for `discriminator`.  This may solve the
above issues.

### Shared responses

The next version of the spec includes support for version ranges using `4XX`
notation
([OAI/OpenAPI-Specification#638](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/pull/638)).
There is also discussion of including a mechanism for defining default
responses in
[OAI/OpenAPI-Specification#521](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/issues/521)
and
[OAI/OpenAPI-Specification#563](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/issues/563)
Unfortunately, since neither of these is supported in OpenAPI v2.0, the
definition in this project contains a redundant error response definition for
error for each API path.
